Let me pronounce your name.
It's Decha, right?
Decha.
And your surname is?
It's Boller.
B-O-L-E-R.
Right.
Is that Dutch?
No, but my maiden name is Brookman.
I see.
But I kept one of my married names.
Okay.
So before I put on the tape recorder, he was saying, well, why don't you, you were about to say something about Mr. Coulter, I guess.
What was it?
Oh, what there might have been of democratic process at the Library Commission when I first began going to those meetings about a year ago has been systematically, deliberately eroded
All I can think is that his notion of governance comes from a CEO point of view, and he has no comprehension or interest in or actual perhaps hostility toward a democratic process.
So his claim of being concerned about the public is to dismiss the public that does attend, whom he treats
Oh, I'll tell you some of the places where it is, is when I work some of them now.
The gadflies, of course, that's tame.
The gadflies.
You are dismissively referred to as the gadflies.
Not you specifically.
I mean, your name doesn't come up, I certainly would, but you're talking generically of the people who come to the meetings.
Troublemakers.
So he needs to maintain his own sense of security in his position and his illusion to himself that he's conducting a democratic process.
What he does is to tell us that we are not the public.
The public isn't there.
And so he's paying attention to the real public that isn't there.
And perhaps he feels he has this army of contributors that he shook down for
of the Library Foundation.
Maybe he thinks they are the public.
But the two major things that he did in the course of his frustrations of being able to get his way at the meetings is to limit the public comment to three minutes, which, you know, makes a mangled mess of things you can't really
get a point across with these little chopped up three minutes.
But he affected that early on.
But the last thing he did was to change the bylaws—actually, for both of them, he had to change the bylaws—change the bylaws to strip the minutes down to less than was on the agenda.
He stripped it down so that only action items need to be reported, and all that's reported of that is the name of the item,
The vote taken and the total on the vote.
Nothing about what anybody said.
It doesn't even have to mention that there's public comment.
Well, on an action item, it mentions that the public speaks in favor or against it, not with any detail, just spoke in favor of the motion or against it with the name of the person who spoke.
And there's been repeated, like at the last five maybe meetings, four or five, objection to this process.
And it's finally, finally we got some commissioners to refuse to approve the minutes in that form any longer.
And so now it's going to be reconsidered.
But he'll drive his feet on that.
I think that's what he said, yeah.
But I don't know—I've been trying to find out if that guarantees he'll be off the commission.
No, he didn't see—in fact, he said his term as president is up, and I think his term goes through 99.
Oh, I see.
That's what he said.
And I, by the way, was at the nominating committee meeting.
I, one member of the press, and one
elderly man who stopped coming now.
He was just a person unto himself.
All he would do is he'd get up and very politely ask that the hours of the library be extended time after time.
That's what he would say.
So we were the only three people in the room when he was nominated for president, and I got up and I talked about conflict of interest, and there were only two members of the commission at that meeting putting in the nomination.
Fran Streets, who isn't attending the meetings anymore—she was the vice president—she had withdrawn her name from the nomination the day before.
So his was the only one that was in the ring.
But they hotly defended him and, oh, there's no conflict of interest.
But there I was.
I said what I could.
What are the hours?
What time do they get closed now, America?
Well, I think sometimes they stay open till eight, other times till six.
That's one of the conflicts with the Library Foundation.
The Library Foundation is not allowed to run any events during the open hours of the library.
But they raise money by scheduling events in the library, and the only reporting of monies that we can get out of the foundation, and the rest of the time they say, we're a private non-profit, we don't have to tell you nothing, so we don't see their annual budget, but we do get a report every six months on the events cost.
The cost, the expenses, and the
taken and what presumably the library has gotten from it.
But at any rate, the possibility of having longer hours in the library is restricted by the continuing desire of the Library Foundation to have as many hours available to them for their events as possible.
There was a wild thing happened here, June 20th.
They closed the library Friday, all day Friday, with no prior announcement for the United States Mayor's Conference.
They were having a party there that night, and I was with my tape recorder at the doors taping people's reaction to not being able to get in the library, and there were many irate people.
But anyway, that somehow was—that was arranged somehow through the foundation and the mayor.
I think the mayor took some initiative there and just said how it had to be, and we witnessed the commission rubber stamping it.
Anyway, that's all the stuff I've been sucked into knowing about.
As a result of my learning about, I don't know, a year and a half ago, that they were January 1995, was it?
My sense of time is eroding.
Well, this is 97.
The library opened in April of 96.
Okay, so it was in January of 96 that we learned that
Some large number of books had been taken to the—library books had been taken to the landfill by Department of Public Works trucks.
And he claims to have had no knowledge of that, by the way.
And I said, well, who audited it?
Did you do an investigation?
And he said, yeah, but we—it's all this finger-pointing.
I said, you know—I said, I'm not from San Francisco, but it seems to me—I said to him, and it's on the paper—I said, I'm an old investigative reporter.
But that would be pretty easy to find out who told the trucks to come.
I mean, that should be pretty find-outable.
You know, you should be able to determine who ordered the truck drivers to come and get this stuff.
And he said he didn't have an answer to that.
And he smiled, you know.
And then I said to him,
Yeah, very interesting.
I mean, anyway, I'm sorry, I don't want to talk, but I want you to talk.
Well, that's interesting to me.
Well, no, no, what he said was, he's even suggesting that it was sabotaged by the librarians that ordered those books, that because they are a union and they don't want volunteer work, that they somehow made it impossible for the books to get onto the shelves.
I mean, this is what he suggested to me today.
I'm going to quote him on this.
You know, it's ridiculous.
You know, when people say things like this, they don't help themselves.
Because I quote people very, very accurately, you know.
Well, that's interesting.
How could the librarians possibly?
I mean, they believe in saving books.
And then I said, well, where would you have put them anyway?
I mean, clearly you don't have the shelf space for them.
You know, something was going on.
What happened there?
And he said, well, they had a mayor, Jordan, who took X amount of dollars out.
And then he said, that took away three and a half or four acres of space.
And so that was the shelf space that they were going to have that would have accommodated those books.
And I said, well, that took away so much of the building.
I said, but you didn't have to build all the light, all that.
And when I walk in there, it's a beautiful building.
I said, but my first
response was, where are the books?
Look at all this space and all these wells and, you know, and he's, I mean, he built, you've got three hundred and, I don't know how many hundred thousand square feet you have there, but I don't see any, I don't see a single book out there in that building.
So anyway, this is just me coming in from Massachusetts.
You know, I've been looking at libraries all over the world, and I do have a sense of libraries I've
fundamentally built to be repositories of books.
Well, it's been repeatedly said that it's a party pad.
I mean, that it's set up with a lot of open space, and they talk about clear sight lines and a lot of light.
But what it makes possible is for them to do their money-raising events in this.
But for what, though?
What are they raising the goddamn money for?
Pardon me.
The glory of Steve Coulter.
But I mean, if it's to raise money to buy new books— To buy new computers.
Okay.
That's what I see.
I see computerization, privatization.
And I can see how he believes that he is bringing the business acumen that he has to—of
a city that doesn't know how to do anything, to a bunch of bureaucrats.
He says that in this transcript, I made it as Jesus.
The city, you know, doesn't put its money where its mouth is.
And in fact, though, in San Francisco, not only did we vote the library bond— 78 percent.
78 percent of the people voted for that.
Right.
And after that, a reserved percentage for fifteen years, I think, of the general fund for
books, and accessibility to books, you know, open hours.
So the Library Commission was forced to keep some of the branches open more than they had been, and to buy books.
But they've done all kinds of fiddlings with the books, you know.
He tells me they're spending three and a half, oh that's another reason they filled up so fast, because they've acquired so much.
And it just filled up a lot faster than they ever expected it to.
That's one of the claims that they have, but it's hard to put your hand on, okay, how many new books did you buy?
I asked them that.
Just give me an answer.
Well, it all depends on what you call a book.
In fact, what do you call a book?
You tell me what a book is.
It was a very interesting colloquy, you know.
I'm kind of eager to get home to transcribe it, you know.
We'll see.
But go ahead.
Really, I'm here to talk to you.
Oops, I'm blabbering.
You'll have to forgive me.
I've been going all day.
Okay.
So I got dragged into this because of my outrage at them trashing books.
Let's also fix ourselves.
Here we are at 1182 Market Street.
virtually abutting the new building.
Right.
So you're a member of the Grey Panthers.
Why don't you tell me briefly from my tape recorder what the Grey Panthers is?
We're a social change organization, basically a—I can't think of the word now—advisory.
An organization that works for
progressive social change with the basic premise that age and youth need to bridge the gaps between each other and can work together to better understand the needs of a society and to achieve change that's beneficial to everybody.
One of our sayings is,
That we're working to make a world that everybody wants to grow old in.
So we are a multi-issue organization, too.
There's no issue—there are certain ones we're more interested in than others—environmental issues, economic justice.
social justice, things like that.
As far as the issue of the books goes, the connection there is that the books that are in our library collection were put there by older generations with presumably the expectation that they would come down to later generations.
To me, it's particularly outrageous that older books are
are seen as more expendable than newer books for some reason or another, maybe because older books are thought to be in not such good condition.
But there's an awful lot of kind of modernist-type thought, which is, well, they're old.
They don't count anymore.
My experience puts the lie to—I've been exposed to a lot of books from this wild collection of books that have come my way, books that I would never have probably bothered looking at or reading because I've just been handling them.
I've been taken aback at the experience of seeing how in a prior age people saw things.
It's just the experience of being able to see their perspective before scientism specialized everything and broke it into little chunks.
I've looked at books that see the questions with a broader view, and even though it may be dated according to scientific research that's happened since then, there's a lot of good
And even if it's not right, historically it's valuable, you know, to know how thought was—what was being thought at an earlier time that is vanishing from our access.
Did you consider yourself a library activist or anything prior to this discovery?
No, no, I was not.
Are you a book person?
I'm a bit of a book person.
I'm a social researcher.
I was trained in social research.
And where, just for the record, are you from here or are you from?
I'm from around and about.
I was born in Southern California.
I did my teens in New York City.
I went to college in Seattle, Washington.
and then University of Chicago, and a little stint back in New York.
And then basically I've been here since about 1958, though I moved out of the city up into Sonoma County, Marin County, in Sonoma County, for a number of years while I was raising my daughter, and then we came back to the city.
I'm a kind of multi-issue person, but I had been working on keeping the nuclear power and weapons USS Missouri out of San Francisco Harbor, tenant issues, animal rights, formed an organization called Vigil for Animals where we protested— Vigil, V-I-G-I-L.
We vigiled every Sunday for four years out at the Letterman Army Institute of Research where they used animals in experiments for weapons and chemical weapons, biological warfare.
As a matter of fact, I was convinced that the Gulf War vets, part of what's wrong with them is that they got inoculated with serums and things.
that had been tested on animals at Letterman.
How do you spell Letterman?
L-E-T-T-E-R-M-A-N.
That's here in San Francisco?
It's gone now.
When they closed the—was it the Presidio Army Bay?
Oh, it was at the Presidio.
So when they closed that, they cleared it all out and moved those experiments to other places.
So anyway, I had been involved in a variety of different things, but then some... I suspect that my family from Holland might have had books in their past, because it was like some invisible button got pushed.
You don't throw away our books.
It was just... So I went down there with a sign that said, I just...
I've got a big piece of paper because I'm an activist, sat outside the door where they were giving away the books.
And I said, discarding books is censorship.
Stop the discards.
Because they weren't keeping track of what books they were discarding.
Well, they were in a panic.
They had to get rid of it.
This thing was a major problem here.
They had no place to put them.
I'm just guessing, as an outsider, they were in a panic.
They didn't want anyone to know.
They didn't have any place to put them either, which is probably why I believe at the orders of Dowlin, although I don't have any proof of that, why the books were sent packing.
So then what happened was— How did you find out about it?
Through the press?
Not the Nick Baker piece.
No, no.
What are their names?
It's two men's names.
Edith Cedar.
No, that's the name of the group.
Yeah.
No, it's not coming to mind.
At any rate, it's a regular kind of byline column, expose.
Oh, I see.
And they expose this with a picture of a big mound of books.
And everybody went crazy.
So then what happened was Dallin, and I know he, I have tapes where he claims proudly to have designed the adopt-a-book program, which was to invite legitimate nonprofit groups to come and take as many books as they wanted, which to my mind did not solve the problem because the public was still losing their collections.
Some people, that mollified them because they felt, okay, the books are still in existence.
Maybe they are, maybe they aren't.
Yeah, maybe they are and maybe they aren't.
My sign didn't put a stop to it, though, so then I decided to take part in it and take as many books as I could and offer them back to the library.
So how did you get the books?
What did you do?
Tell me physically what you did.
Okay, well, they had appointment times that you could... Oh, so this was legitimate.
You could come and just grab.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
This was the period when they said just come and take the books.
Yes.
So you went... But it was restricted.
You know, they'd make certain... The first go around, they had...
an appointment list, and only a certain number of groups could come in at one time.
And you would pick the books and put them in a carton and take them out to your car.
And you could only be there for three hours or two hours, whatever it was.
And they were very gracious and helped you carry them out to the car.
That was the first time, and maybe the first two times, and what they did was to lay the books out on tables in the front room of the old main library, the door in the ante room where we used to check out the books.
But then it loosened up a little and more groups came in and you didn't have an actual appointment time, and they were
all on shelves in the basement of the Old Main Library.
This is outside the basement.
I took this because these are the chairs they were giving away.
This is an old binder, I think.
Oh, I thought they'd kill to have that.
See, there's the auction signs on them.
And these didn't sell, so they were jumped.
Finally they found somebody who, I think, had some use for it.
But a lot of the stuff they never, you know, like— This is equipment.
These are book preservation issues.
Yeah.
So the picture I was looking for—well, this is taken in the room.
I think it's developed backwards.
Maybe not.
Maybe I was standing at the front.
It was a basement room, and the walls were lined with bookshelves, and then it was a huge room, so there were a lot of freestanding bookshelves all filled with books.
But I took this because they also threw away all the records.
And that enraged me because I thought they could have made at least tapes of the records, but that turns out to have been a copyright
So they just dumped all of these records.
I thought that forward-looking technology would be to recognize that the records may be becoming out of date because the technology that people have at home is for CDs or for cassettes, so that the library's function would be
to provide a method to play LP records if they're into technology.
As a matter of fact, I wonder why it wouldn't be the function of the library to provide access to computers that will be able to handle old disks as the upgrading happens.
There's this sort of detritus behind it of stuff you can't access or use.
Did you take any records, or just did you restrict yourself to books?
I took a few records.
I took a few.
I was more interested in the books, but I took maybe about fifteen, twenty records.
Taking the books was— Were they good records?
Well, I remember one Paul Robeson record.
They were in perfectly good shape.
One of the effects of this endeavor has been to leave me with a seriously addled brain.
It has been overexposed to too many separate little chunks of detail.
Here's a copy of this.
So I made an index card like this out for each of the books that we took.
So this is Crouse, C-R-O-U-S-C, and Anglin, A-N-G-L-I-N, Automotive Engines, 1986.
So that's not all that old.
629.13.
Next line, C884, lowercase aw, 1986.
So that's the classification code for it.
Right.
And then this stands for Merced.
That's the branch that it was in.
And then I looked them up on the computer, and it said withdrawn from that branch.
So in this case— WD.
WD.
In this case, there was a record of it having been there and been withdrawn.
There was no record that this book had been removed from the collection.
I mean, you didn't look up the book and see that that copy was marked as withdrawn.
It just wasn't there.
In this case, there were six other copies available.
Two of them were referenced.
In this system, in the San Francisco system?
In the San Francisco system.
There are 26 branches in San Francisco and the main.
And this signifies that the copy at Excelsior was lost.
So the reason I put this kind of stuff down was to remind myself that I was keeping a record of all the offbeat
Well, I was just keeping track of— Of the history of the book, I guess.
Yeah, and it's not just that copy, but of the other copies in the system.
So I would assume from this that, for example, there were six copies in the system.
One had been lost, but I didn't count that as one of the copies.
In other words, there are six copies available.
This six AB means that they were, after they took out the discard and after other kinds of oddball things on the record, there were countable six copies.
However, that was in the online catalog.
I, in only one subcategory, the ones in the general collection on the third floor, I went
to the shelves to see if the books that the online catalog said were there were actually on the shelves.
And not in all cases were they.
In most of the cases they were.
So this is how my brain got addled.
I put all this stuff on the computer.
And then this little number down here says what box.
It's in, or sometimes it'll say Grey Panther, and that means that it's here at this office.
So it's in one of these boxes at my house.
I didn't, that's not printed out here.
So you call it, this 39 indicates, that's a location.
A location in my house.
That's a location code.
Box 39, yeah.
Okay.
So when you went and you made your selection,
What were the criteria?
Yeah, that's what I had started to tell you, that the sessions where we were selecting books, I was in this frenzy in the amount of time that I had to take as many books as I could.
And my criteria shifted around sometimes.
Sometimes I was proving that this was indeed a research library, and I would take these abstruse old books on metallurgy or
You know, just things that were obviously books that you would have if you wanted to provide the public with basic, pure science kind of information, and you can't claim it's light reading.
But then my own particular interest and the Great Panther interests had sway.
I picked a lot of books on social change, on campus unrest in the sixties.
There's a lot of books on the sixties.
History, psychology, sociology, humanities, but my brain is even swimming now.
I also then at one point got some advice from a librarian, so I spent some time, the last time or two I was there, biasedly selecting books that were from university presses.
I don't claim at any point that this selection of books is a representative sample
of the fifty-eight thousand books that they gave away during that year.
Fifty-eight thousand.
I took, or we took, thirteen hundred and seventy.
So you took a significant percentage.
Took as many as I could get my hands off.
So how often did you go over there?
Four or five times.
Total?
Uh-huh.
And that was, you know, like we had to— How much you went more than that, because thirteen hundred books— I picked them off the shelf really fast.
I can't have been, maybe, did I say four or five?
Yeah.
It might have been five or six, but that's all there were.
I went to every one, I think, each one of the appointments, times we set up.
So you could take as many as you wanted.
So you must have been taking, if you went five or six times, and my math isn't so good, but what, did you get 200 books every time you went?
How did you get thirteen hundred and seventy books?
Well, I had other people besides me picking books, although I did the majority, I have to admit.
So you did the selection, but you had carriers.
You had people who would remove them.
Yeah, well, no, I had other people picking books, too.
I mean, there's a lot of odd books here, a number of them that other people picked.
I just left here.
There's all kinds of books in the world.
Basically I feel that I have a hatchback car and it'd be about maybe twenty cartons or fifteen, twenty cartons that I could fit in each trip.
But I want to accentuate that I was in a frenzy.
No one should talk.
I got really weird.
I got really weird about, don't interrupt me, I'm very busy.
Because I was making the most of every minute there, and trying to pick worthwhile books, and also getting, part of the frenzy was getting into a kind of weird greed space, you know.
I began to love, you know, if certain books would come my way, I'd just, my heart would leap with, um... Can you think of any of it?
No.
Something like that happened to me in Death Valley once.
You're not supposed to even touch the pebbles there, right?
And I was going around, and pretty soon I was just picking one pebble.
I'm just going to take one pebble.
But it's a kind of an irrational lust that comes upon me.
I'm Greek, and my mother didn't.
That precise thing at the Parthenon, at the Acropolis, she got dizzy, right?
And she took a little piece of, a little fragment of marble.
You know, this was from the Parthenon temple.
I mean, she had to have it.
And I think it was precisely the thing that you're describing here.
It is.
It's an amazing, it's not an intellectual response at all.
It's emotional, isn't it?
I would guess.
I think it's driven by an intellectual... It barely touches the brain.
It's caused by the brain because the brain is interested in that.
The brain is working, but the response is a delight that... Now, maybe it's an intellectual delight, but it is distinctly more of a delight than an idea by that time.
It's
I don't know, let's see, I don't want to exaggerate it.
Were you attracted by titles, by the physicality of the books?
Oh, the content.
So if it was a physically beautiful book with pictorial cloth, that wasn't necessarily what was expected.
No, it was like, this is a valuable piece of… Scholarship?
Well, I'll tell you one book.
It was a book by, is it Thomas Merton?
Robert Merton.
I couldn't believe that I came as a sociologist.
It was Robert Merton, Reader in Bureaucracy, and I believe they probably don't have another copy of that, and I marked on that card, that's a sin.
But there were other books like
Here's a book by Daniel Cohn-Bendit, Obsolete Communism, Left-Wing Alternative.
How do you spell his name?
Cohn-Bendit, C-O-H-N-B-E-N-D-I-T.
Okay, C-O-H-N-D-I-T.
So now, that would have been one of these experiences.
What it is is that I couldn't have sat down and thought of that book, but I knew his name from my studies.
And so I knew, oh, I've come out, you know, great, I got a little piece of that.
It was that kind of a feeling, that I was coming upon little fragments of our culture that I was saving, and that I was outraged at them for giving away.
And so the idea of giving them back to, you know, hanging on to them and then shaming them by saying, I'll give them back to you as soon as you have a policy.
How did you tell them?
How did you let them know that you had 1,370 of the public library books and you were holding them for them?
I've gotten two, I think, articles in newspapers where I'm quoted saying that, and at the commission meeting I gave them a copy of the list, of an abbreviated list, asking for a list of all of those that are
coded in the online computer as Ask Librarian for Holdings.
And is that indicated here in this list that you're giving me?
You're giving me this, right?
Yes, I'm giving you that, but it's on there.
How do I know?
What's the code for that?
The code is, let me put it here.
Shalom Alephim.
I can't believe they're giving away Shalom Alephim.
Well, usually it's—oh, come on, Dacia, you made a particular effort to put that code in there.
Oh, here.
A is Ask Librarians for Holdings, and I'm giving you a list of only—
that's sorted by... Well, you've given me a... Oh, good, yeah.
I've got a code here.
And then... But here is a... You know, all of these are A's, and these are all books that you... What you do... The computer tells you, ask a librarian for holdings.
They're very deceptive here.
They're telling you that they ask us about it, but when in fact they dump it.
No, they dumped one, and they don't know where the others are.
Other is.
There's only one other, and when you find it on the computer, it says, ask librarian for holdings.
So then you go to the librarian, you ask them for the holdings, and each librarian gives you a different reason for the fact that they don't know where it is.
None of them seem to understand what ask librarian for holdings means, and it's something that was assigned by
technical services or I don't know what, but they don't know where these books are, if they exist at all.
You don't get them.
You don't get any of these books.
You indicated also that you did some research with the OCLC database?
This is it.
And this is, of course, OCLC, which is all over America.
Oh, no, I didn't say that.
I don't know what that means.
When I asked you if you would determine whether or not any of these books were last copies.
Oh, I'm not saying they're last copies in the world.
I'm saying they're last copies in this library.
Okay, we misunderstood each other.
Oh, yeah.
No, I haven't taken that next step.
That would be really good.
Well, if somebody wanted to do it.
This is the list of, there were 98 books that the library had no other copies of in this system.
Now, these books are on that list.
Mm-hmm.
with a zero.
Here's one.
So each of these books, for one reason or another, isn't—like this one, there's another edition of it, but they don't have any more of this edition.
In this case, just nothing turns up.
You look and it says, you know, I looked under the title, I looked under the title,
the author and the call number.
And in each of those cases, there was no record that showed up.
It just reports to you.
Your search did not find this sign.
You don't have any really old old books, I noticed.
The oldest book is— It was in 1909, which goes back.
Did you go after any 19th-century books?
I think there were a couple.
There weren't that many that I saw.
I, um, my memory's failing me now.
I think there were a couple of, oh, I can answer that.
I have a, I put a file where everything is.
What is this poster here?
That was outside my house.
That is what kicked me into never quitting.
It was so, it's so outrageous.
Who were they quoting there?
E.M.
Forster.
Oh, that's Forster's Claw?
Yeah, it's in teeny letters down there.
And what they thought they were doing, I do not know.
That was at about the time—actually, it was after the new library had opened, I think.
And it was right outside my house on the bus stop there, and I was enraged.
Who posted this?
This has nothing to do with... It had to do with the opening of the new... It was an ad for the new main library.
Come see it.
And it was Bank of America and Pacific Bell.
There's the connection with Steve Colter.
I mean, like, it was... They put a lot of money in PR into getting everybody to come to the new main library.
That was part of Colter's whole thing.
He's, you know, very excited about promoting this new extravaganza of a building.
Very interesting.
So what do you think?
Have you ever heard anything from them about your books, or are they basically ignoring you, do you think?
Well, no, they're ignoring me.
Here's the... Oh, okay, sure.
...by date.
Well, that's a pretty old book.
Yeah.
It's a very old book.
conchological manual, whatever the heck that is.
Oh, it's a marvelously illustrated, beautiful drawings of shells.
Conchological.
It's all these shells.
Back then, people, the marine, I mean, the shipping... Is it oversized?
No, it's rather small.
It's about like this.
Is it in nice condition?
Yes, except someone had razored
a few plates out of it, but basically the rest, it's all in good shape and it's sturdy.
Back in the, there were a number of books, this is something I learned from this, a number of books there that were reports from travelers or people, you know, like they were sailing around the world.
So there were the kinds of reports they were getting that were like they collected everything, you know,
They were listing and ordering everything that they were finding.
Yeah, they were discovering things.
That sounds like a lovely book.
It is.
So yeah, they're kind of ignoring me.
And then I've announced repeatedly at the commission meetings, they know me, they know that my concern is the books.
And they sort of groan, if not audibly, visually.
when I come up with it.
They tried to make me look stupid, or others that expressed this, by saying that we apparently didn't understand that all libraries read books.
And we just needed to be educated, and then there was this insulting go-around about how they were going to—Colder's idea, that he was going to set up a citizens' advisory committee, and it would be stocked with respectable members of the public that he would pick, and it definitely would not be one of odds.
Sure.
idea has kind of stopped being talked about.
And this committee was going to decide about the books, as opposed to professionals who… They were going to be let in on the process, and I thought it was a dreadful idea, because I thought, oh, that is an opening to some real book burning, you know, to censorship.
Oh, sure, because that's going to say, this is a horrible book, look at this.
Oh, my goodness, this talks about abortion, you know.
My suspicion of Coulter is such that he would—he was not above suspicion in my book of making stuff like that happen, because he has some specialized collections now there in the library, the status of which I'm not clear on.
The gay and lesbian.
Which is his baby.
Right.
He's very clear to me that he wants this to be.
He wants this to be the gay counterpart to the Schaumburg Collection in New York, which is the great African-American collection.
And I said to him, I said, you understand, of course, that the Schaumburg Collection was put together by one individual, Arthur Alfonso Shaw.
I mean, he didn't even know the Schaumburg's first name, you know, who was a great, great collector and who made and gave this and sold part of it to the New York Public Library.
It's the preeminent collection in the world, and it was around that that they built this.
You know, but just to say we're going to open a room, and this is now, I said, what have you done to acquire materials?
I mean, you've got this lovely room there.
What do you have for collections?
You know, what do you have for materials?
Great idea.
I said, it is a good idea.
Okay, why not?
This is the city.
If any city's going to do it, do it here.
There should be an archive on this stuff.
So what do you got in the archive?
I mean, the Yellen-Ginsburg stuff went to Stanford.
This would have been a good, you know,
You know what I'm saying?
Where's the beef?
What have you got to show me for this collection?
I'm going to ask those questions when I go over there Wednesday.
I have some knowledge on research collections.
Well, over in one of the branches there are a lot of cartons on top of the stacks of books that are gay and lesbian.
And in the basement of Brooks Hall there are apparently a lot of uncatalogued gay and lesbian materials.
that are waiting to be catalogued.
But what is in the gay and lesbian room, I don't know.
And I've asked that question, are these books that were taken out of the general collection put in the gay and lesbian room, or are they books that have been donated to the library from outside persons?
Well, even more than books, what have you got for research materials?
What have you got for any prominent gay writers who have given, who have
whose papers, like Ginsburg, for instance, that would have been a terrific, you know, now you've got a research collection.
But I mean, just to get some titles that have been written by gay authors, I mean, that's really not a great, such a strong statement.
I don't think that's going to attract scholars here from around the world to do research in your collection, you know.
I said, now Cornell has a remarkable collection.
He had never heard of it.
I said, it's probably the great gay lesbian collection.
He says, Cornell?
I didn't know anything about it.
And it was given to Cornell by an alumnus who was gay, died of AIDS, exceedingly wealthy.
And he gave a lot of money to Cornell.
And of course they took the collection and ran the money, you know, and then they're building it.
It's a major, major, major collection.
But I don't think that they've got anything going like this over here.
And I said, well, have you raised this money?
Do you have a curator?
Do you have somebody who's involved in collection development?
Do you have, you know, I mean this is how libraries
put together a facility for research.
You don't just build a little place with a pretty dome and get the money and say it's a gay-lesbian affinity room.
You know?
Am I being foolish here?
I don't know.
Well, I don't know that much about libraries.
You didn't have any answers for those questions.
All I know is that the African-American room, whatever you're supposed to call it,
doesn't have a librarian, doesn't have anybody.
The effect is that all the books that are in that room are on reserve, I mean, are marked reference, so no one can take any of them out.
They just have to stay there.
And the day I was in there, there was a volunteer sitting in there, it turned out, and it was, he commented to me about ten minutes before leaving town.
He says, well, I'll walk down with you.
I don't think anyone can
What was his word?
Do any vandalism in ten minutes.
So apparently he was sitting there to avert vandalism, but there's no librarian.
Not there to answer any questions.
Right.
And I think one was promised, at least if not in that room, then in the gay and lesbian section.
That just didn't happen.
The numbers that you were able to put together was basically limited by the opportunities you had to go.
There would be more if there had been more days, right?
Yes, and I'm glad now that there was that limitation put on it, otherwise I would be even more addled than I am.
I wanted for the longest time, and I still would like it.
to be able to land at some public display place where these books could be shown to the public and there would be a computer they could act.
I was even thinking in terms of, well, of making a kind of little museum so that with pictures like this and documents from what's been going on, you make a big scrapbook of the beef that's been going on here.
just documenting the struggle, the ongoing struggle, over protecting the books.
And basically the statement of that is, as far as I'm concerned, is that they stole our old main library from us, selling us the new main library.
In the course of that, letting the foundation, the private foundation in, the nose under the tent,
to do the furnishings for the library because the bond issue can't be used for the furnishings, so they threw away all the old furnishings from the old main library, and the foundation supposedly paid for all of the new furnishings plus the computers.
So that in one fell swoop we switched to a heavy-duty computerization, 200 or 300 computers now, where there were about, I don't know, six or something.
A conversion to computers
with the commitments that are involved there of enormous amounts of money and endless bottom pit of it, too.
Another million has now been proposed by the new acting librarian for a whole new set of, I guess it's hardware, point-and-click technology, graphic technology with a mouse.
And she thinks that everybody's going to be happier if they have that, and pointing out to her that that does nothing to
solve the shortcomings of the online catalog that are there.
There are books that the public simply has not got access to because they can't know about them, because they're not in the online catalog.
So doing some cosmetic changes to the computer terminals they use is not doing anything at all
for the basic problem.
It's just joshing the public along and making them think that they've got something better, but in fact it's just another kind of search system with the same inadequacies of cataloging that you're searching for.
So it's a waste of money.
She seems to have her mind fixed on that.
My notion is that the fix is in, that that technology somehow is seen as some kind of necessary step for the further development of the telecommunications technology they want to or have to go along with.
I don't know enough about internet and about
Well, you sure know enough about computers, though.
Look at what you've done here.
Well, I can work my own little computer, yeah, and you don't need anything high-powered for that.
I have a dumb little old PC, IBM clone thing, and I have an Alpha 4 program, and so I just know how to do that.
I think that it's a kind of insanity for the library to
take on the job of educating the public to use the web and internet.
You know, like that's a job for the community college or maybe for the older classes in the schools.
But I hardly dare make that argument because people are so enthralled by
the potential of the computer.
It's like a huge wave, and you're trying to go that way, and the wave is going this way.
People don't want to hear it.
And on top of it, there is an industry, Gates being the very unpopular head of it,
Not in an organizational—well, there is a—the economy is sucked into that right now.
All the development has to do with electronics and the investment and the capital.
I mean, it's over my head to understand it, but the impetus of the economy is in that.
I think the libraries are making a serious mistake in getting into it, because if they have to keep up with the Joneses on that technology, their budget problems are only beginning.
Because as I understand it, you have to keep upgrading the technology in order to
interlink with the other technologies.
So you don't, after a point, you don't have any choice.
Oh, that's right.
Once you're embarked on that path, you know, it's awfully hard to turn away from it.
Because the one valid reason that the library has— I mean, they're on that path.
I don't see how they're ever going to get, you know—
I got some suggestions to make how they could simply limit themselves to using the computers for the online catalog and bring back the old card catalog to use in conjunction with the online catalog until the online catalog is complete, number one.
Then if they want to access other libraries' catalogs, limit the use to that.
But leave the...
The free-floating internet function, the web function, you know, like accessing other museums or all that other stuff that it does, leave that out of the mission statement of the library.
Have the computerization in the library relate to accessing books, period.
Well, I don't know if you're going to get that either.
But if we don't, well, probably not, but it's, I think, a reasonable statement to make.
And if not, one advantage to that is it would solve this waterfall place we're coming to, what do you call it, a real problem place, a rapid of the First Amendment, the freedom of information or free speech issue.
I can see the library just breaking up on the shoals over that.
I mean, they have hard enough time handling it when it's just books.
But with the kinds of problems they're going to be having, they're already having children coming in the library and finding a pornographic screen on and the parents getting upset and then making rules about that, which are going to make possible restrictions on political thought and blah-de-blah-de-blah.
So if you were to...
just say the use of computers in the library is in relation to books, and keep it to that.
Then you keep away from that issue.
So these books are all over your house?
Do you have a house or an apartment, or is it a tight space over there?
Well, I have a lot of rooms, but my house has become a chaotic jumble of all my old life, half-filed, because three years ago I had a fire that
went through my tapes and archives and some of it's rescued and some of it's not and that was not sorted out at the time this came upon me so there are three rooms with various stacks of things in it and then the hallway has cartons in the hallway and the stairs have cartons on the stairs but the bulk of the books are in